Java Student Management System
The main objective of this project is to develop a Student Management System that utilizes Java, Java Swing, and SQLite. The system will allow you to store and retrieve student information such as IDs, contacts, and addresses.

By following this project, you will gain a basic understanding of how to create a GUI using Java Swing, connect to an SQLite database, and implement the functionality for storing and retrieving data.e.

Prerequisites for Student Management System using Java
Basic knowledge of Java programming
Familiarity with Java Swing for creating GUI applications
Knowledge of databases and SQL queries.
Understanding of JAR files and how they are used in Java projects.
Understanding of database management and SQLite database.
Any Java IDE (Eclipse recommended)
It is recommended to use the WindowBuilder plugin in Eclipse to make GUI development easier. The WindowBuilder allows you to drag-and-drop GUI components and generates the code automatically, making it easier to create and design Java graphical user interfaces.

Download Java Student Management System Project
Please download the source code of Java Student Management System project from the following link: Java Student Management System Project Code

Steps to Create Student Management System using Java
Following are the steps for developing the Java Student Management System project:

Step 1: Setting Up the Project and Classes
Open Eclipse and navigate to “File” > “New” > “Java Project”.
Give your project a name, for example, “Student Management System”.
Right-click on the project and select “New” > “Class”.
Give a name to the first class, such as “StudentManagement”.
Repeat steps 3 and 4 to create another class, “Database”.
Step 2: Incorporating SQLite into the Project
Go to the Project Explorer in Eclipse.
Select the project name by right-clicking on it and choose “Properties”.
In the Properties window, navigate to “Java Build Path” and then click the “Libraries” tab.
Hit the “Add External JARs” button, and locate the SQLite JAR file.
Select the JAR file and press “Open”.
Click “OK” to close the Properties window.
